A CNN team witnessed
Israeli soldiers
with Palestinian detainees
who were blindfolded and barefoo
UN human rights officials
have previously urged Israel
to end what they called
the mistreatment of Palestinians
which included the use of blindf
CNN's Jeremy
Diamond has this reporting for u
and joins us now live.
Jeremy, what did you learn?
Well, Fred,
my team and I
were in southern Israel today
near the border with Gaza,
when suddenly we spotted
more than two dozen men,
some of them kneeling,
some of them sitting on the grou
with Israeli soldiers
standing around them.
We now know that these men
were Palestinians detained
by the Israeli military in Gaza
and brought to Israel
for further questioning.
Now, if you look at the video he
that we have, these men were bli
they were barefoot.
And keep in mind
that it was about 50 degrees Fah
during this day.
And all they're wearing
are these disposable white cover
Their hands are tied behind thei
And you can see that many of the
are clearly physically exhausted
their heads kind of nodding
down, bobbing, swaying.
One man was lying on the ground
before an Israeli
soldier comes to rouse him,
propping him back up
so that he can be sitting on the
Now, the Israeli military
told us this in a statement
saying, quote,
These are
the individuals
shown on
camera are suspected
of terrorist activity
and were arrested in Gaza
and transferred to Israel
for further interrogation.
Relevant suspects
are taken for further questionin
within Israel.
Individuals who are found
not to be taking part
in terrorist activities
are released back into Gaza
as soon as possible.
Now, they also addressed the con
in which we found these detainee
talking about the fact
that they were wearing
these white coveralls
because they had been stripped,
their clothing
searched to ensure
that they were not carrying
weapons or explosives.
And they said that
they would be given clothing
once they arrived
at that detention facility.
They also said that
when we came across them
that they were about
to be put on a heated bus
in order to be taken
to that detention facility.
We weren't able to see
exactly how long these men
were actually on the ground ther
And that's
because an Israeli soldier
came to us and demanded
that we leave the premises
once he saw us filming.
Now, as it relates to Israel's
the Israeli military's claims he
that these are terror suspects.
It's important to note that we h
while this is the first time
that we have been able
to unilaterally directly documen
these detentions,
there have been a lot of videos
of Palestinian men
and boys in Gaza
detained by the Israeli military
and in many cases,
they have proven to be civilians
They have been identified
by their friends or relatives
in videos as civilians.
We also interviewed
ten Palestinian men and boys
back in December
who said that they were arrested
and detained by the Israeli mili
for five days
without charge
before being ultimately released
when they were released.
Those men and boys had swollen
wrists, bruises
on their wrists, in some cases
from the fact
that their hands were tied
behind their backs
for the duration of that detenti
Now, the Israeli military, for i
insists that it proceeds with
international law
in all of these cases Fred.
And then, Jeremy, separately,
more countries are pausing
funding for the United Nations
relief agencies operating in Gaz
The IDF said today that
those facilities were used
for terrorist purposes.
What do you know about that?
Yeah, that's right.
The United Kingdom is now also j
the United States
in temporarily pausing funding t
which is the main agency
responsible for Palestinian refu
But they have been playing,
of course, a critical role in Ga
right now,
providing shelter,
providing food
and other humanitarian assistanc
That is so desperately
needed at this moment.
But, of course,
this all comes after these bombs
allegations yesterday
that 12 UNWRA staffers were invo
in the October seven terrorist a
carried out by Hamas.
That's according to intelligence
that Israel shared
not only with the United States,
but also with UNWRA directly.
And following that information,
UNWRA went on to fire
some of those staffers.
We don't know exactly how many,
they did say
that they fired
multiple staffers, in part
because they want to ensure
that humanitarian assistance
can continue to flow into Gaza.
UNWRA, for its part, has pledged
a full investigation into this m
and has vowed to hold any of tho
responsible accountable for this
But today,
we're also getting reaction from
which is condemning
Israel's threats against that UN
Israel has said
that they would like to end
UNRWA's role in Gaza altogether
and is calling
on countries to end
funding to that agency Fred.
All right, Jeremy Diamond,
thank you so much for your repor
All right.
In Gaza,
the Palestine Red Crescent
Society is appealing for protect
for the Al Amal Hospital in Hon.
Yunis in Gaza.
The aid agency says
Israeli bombing in the area
has endangered its medical staff
and the 7000 people who are
taking shelter there.
Separately, at least nine
people were killed
and another 75 injured this week
when Israeli tank fire hit the U
shelter that was harboring
hundreds of people.
That's according to the UN.
Streams of Palestinians
fled the area in southern Gaza
following the attack.
The Israeli military said
it is looking into the incident
and said it wasn't the result of
by Israeli forces.
I want to bring in Jayda McKenna
She is the CEO of Mercy Corps.
So good to see you.
So there's an aid organization
that has been working in Gaza
and the West Bank for more than
What what have your aid workers
been telling you about the attac
shelter and the aftermath?
You know, increasingly,
Palestinians have been moved
into smaller and smaller spaces.
And for this to happen,
it's just another example
where there are very few places
physically to be.
And to see them
continually getting bombed.
It just escalates this feeling
that nowhere is safe
and the anxiety
of the hardship of living amidst
the worst situation.
After the attack,
you reiterated that Gazans are t
They have nowhere to go.
And the same applies
to some of your aid workers.
What are they doing to try to st
And how are you able
to communicate with people?
So we sent some of them have,
you know, different SIM
cards from other countries
to get around
telecoms plans, because the Isra
I mean, Israel has shut down
telecommunications for four week
or days at a time at times.
You know,
they talk about spending a lot o
each day looking for food.
They talk about spreading over
safe shelter.
They try to get word
about their relatives and others
And they are also just complaini
They're also starting to get sic
I have one staff member
who said everyone in her family
has either a skin infection
or some other kind of infection.
So this prolonged period
of harsh winter weather
with no safe shelter, not enough
not enough food,
it's taking its toll on people
in many different dimensions.
You are among many
who have called for
an immediate cease fire,
something you've been demanding
for some time now.
Do you feel like your plea
and that of many is even being h
Or do you believe that at some p
there will be a cease fire
if it doesn't haven't happened
more immediately?
It's very disheartening.
And, you know, at this point,
all all 2 million
people of Gaza are in need of
humanitarian aid
to launch a response
and to serve that many people.
That is something outside
of the purview of aid organizati
There is no way for us to do tha
in the absence of a total cease
People don't know where to go fo
Our staff will be at risk
and it will be chaotic.
So it's really disheartening
that our pleas for
this have been unheard
because the longer this goes on,
the more
that is
an absolute precondition for any
And you say
one of the things that hampers
your organization is a lack of a
and a lack of access points,
you know, for for Gaza aid.
Can you kind of
paint a picture
for people who still have a hard
envisioning,
you know, what these obstacles a
and in what ways can aid
be rendered rendered?
So just to start with,
getting supplies in on a normal
Gaza was always dependent
on those crossings
for all of their commercial good
and everything else.
On a normal day,
500 trucks,
including like regular
grocery store
restocking, would go through the
to go into Gaza every day.
At this point, we're averaging
about 130 trucks a day, just of
not of any commercial things.
There are hundreds of trucks
lined up at the Egyptian border.
Some items have been
indiscriminately banned
from those trucks.
So sleeping
bags were rejected
for having metal zippers.
Tents were respected
for were rejected for having met
So a truck gets the inspection s
something gets disqualified,
and then they have to go
all the way
to the back of the line on top o
where are we
as aid workers to tell people
to go to collect aid?
Earlier in this segment,
we talked about a U.N.
shelter getting bombed.
You have a hospital getting bomb
Where do we feel comfortable
telling people that they can go
and be safe to get these supplie
So people are so desperate,
they're even mobbing
the trucks that are coming in.
But we just have no visibility
to how we safely transport
because areas
that should have been deconflict
continue to be bombed.
And then what about
medical care?
So this is you know, at this poi
the U.N.
is warning that a warning
that a famine could be coming.
But at this point,
your people are so depleted
of food and resources
and no medical care
that they're you're starting
to see people dying
of secondary things
like diarrheal diseases, infecti
and and with the lack of medical
or medical supplies.
They are hopeless.
Very people are going to die
from very simple infections
that could have been handled
with antibiotics.
Terrible.
All right, Jim McKenna,
thank you so much.
And I know you
and so many
non-government agencies
are working so hard to try to re
whatever care
and assistance you can,
and it is an uphill battle.
Thank you so much for your time.